
# 1 - Add DATP to your Restify server

## Add DATP to your project

    mv index.js app.js
    npm install @tooltwist/datp
    npm install esm

## Changes to your source code
In VSCode, right click on `COURSE-FILES/3.datp/app-example1.js` and select _Open to the Side_. This will allow you to view your app.js in the left pain, and the updated version in the right pane.

These are the changes required to add DATP to your Restify server:

1. Import DATP and the function addRoute() function.
1. Surrounding our code with an asynchronous main() function. This allows us to use await and try/catch in our code.
1. Use _DATP.restifyMasterServer()_ instead of _restify.createServer()_.
1. Register our routes using _addRoute()_ rather than _server.get()_. We'll ignore the server.head() in this tutorial.
1. Start the server using _DATP.goLive()_ rather than _server.listen()_.


## Configuration files
When DATP is run, it's configuration is using JSON, and accessed using a library named _Juice_. This library allows the JSON file to be accessed from the file system during development, or from AWS Secrets Manager or another secure credentials store when running in a production environment.

Inside your project folder, create a folder named `util-vsc` and copy these files into that folder.

    COURSE_FILES/3.datp/run-master  
    COURSE_FILES/3.datp/dev-master  
    COURSE_FILES/3.datp/config-master.json

The location of the JSON configuration file is specified using an environment variable. The `run-master` script sets that environment variable and then runs our server.

## Database and REDIS
Our devcontainer definitions cause Docker to start Docker containers for MySQL and also REDIS. It also starts a Docker container for a utility named _phpMyadmin_. This is a browser-based database administration tool, and we can use it to load our initial data into our database.

1. Open phpMyAdmin at http://localhost:33360. The pssword is root, and there is no password.

2. Have a look around this tool.

3. Create a database named `datp`, with encoding `utf8_unicode_ci`.

4. Use the Import tab to load data from `COURSE_FILES/3.datp/initial-data.sql`.

ZZZZ Need to simplify the data file

## Run our new DATP server

1. In the terminal [within VSC], start the server with _run-master_.

```bash
util-vsc/run-master
```

2. If the following URLs by either clicking on the following links, or test them using `curl`.

> http://localhost:33370/datp/1.0/healthcheck  
> http://localhost:33370/datp/1.0/ping  
> http://localhost:33370/myProject/1.0/hello/fred  

You might have noticed that our original Restify URL with the path _/hello/fred_ is now _/myProject/1.0/hello/fred_. This is because the `addRoute()` function promotes the best practices of namespaces and API versioning.

## Automatic Restart
If you modify your `app.js`, you will find that the changes aren't deployed until you restart the server. To speed up development, we can use a utility named `nodemon`, by using `dev-master` instead of `run-master`.

1. Edit `package.json` and update the _scripts_ section to include a _vsc_dev_ entry:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1",
    "vsc-dev": "nodemon -w /workspace -x node -r esm app.js"
  },
```

2. If your server is still running, kill it using **&lt;control>**-**C**.

3. Start the server using _dev-master_:

```bash
util-vsc/dev-master
```

4. If you make any change to `app.js` and save the file, you will see the server restart.

## Menu option to start the server
On the pane at the bottom of VSCode where it says _PROBLEMS OUTPUT DEBUG CONSOLE TERMINAL PORTS_, on the right side there is a + and down arrow. If you click on that arrow you'll see an option 'MASTER', that will run the _dev-master_ script in a new terminal.

## Next...

In the next exercise we will start calling DATP transactions from the administration tool, MONDAT.

---
