# 3 - A First Pipeline

1. In MONDAT on the _pipelines_ page, press _Add Pipeline_
and add a pipeline named `myPipeline`.

1. Add a description to your pipeline.

2. Click on the definition tab and delete the existing default step, then drag the following steps onto the pipeline definition.

    - example / `saySomething`
      (Open the item and add your own message)
    - util / `delay`
      (sleep for 15 seconds)
    - example / `saySomething`
      (Set the message to _continuing now..._)
    - Fixed reply
      (Return any message you like)

:::warning Important
Don't forget to press _Save_!
Sorry, the current version gives no indication that the pipeline save worked.
:::

:::tip
The search filter can save a lot of time
:::

4. Restart server by saving `app.js` using **&lt;control>**-S.


## Test your Pipeline
1. Go to the _Testing_ page and add a test case for your new pipeline.

2. Press the _Save_ button.

2. Click on _Run test_ for your _myPipeline_ test.

You will see an error message.

```json
{
  "code": "InvalidArgument",
  "message": "Missing req.tenant (normally set by middleware)"
}
```

This null transaction is a test transaction that bypasses user authentication, but your pipeline does not. In our code so far we have not done anything to tell DATP which user is starting a pipeline, so it refuses to start our pipeline.

## Pipeline versions


## Exporting and inporting pipelines


### Coming up next...
In the next section we address how users are authenticated, and the `tenantId` is passed through to DATP.

---