# Barrage testing

## Install the initial files

1. Create a folder `myProject/util-vsc/barrage`.

1. Copy all the files from `COURSE-FILES/3.2-barrage-testing` into this folder.

2. In a VSCode Terminal run these commands:

```sh
cd /workspace/myProject/util-vsc/barrage
npm install
./1.test-hello.sh
```

3. Stretch the terminal to be as large as you can make it,
then run `./1.ping.sh`.

4. Press 's' to start the test.


:::tip So what is it doing?

Each cell on the grid represents a seperate transaction.
Your server is called to start each transaction, and
the cell color and letter gets changed.
The barrage tester provided a webhook and keeps track of the transactions, so when it receives notification of a transaction copmpleting it places a tick in the relevant position on the grid.
:::

5. The 'h' command will give you the valid commands, but in short,
use 't' to set the number of tests, and then 'c' to try to get it to
fit on the screen.
So for example 't 10000' will set ten thousands transactions, and
then hopefully 'c 250' will stop it making a mess of the page.

## Waiting transactions

Run `./2.example-pipeline.sh` and starting the test.

You will see the entire screen covered with the letter 'R'.

If you go to the queues page on MONDAT you will see
that node group 'slave1' has about ten thousand transactions
queued, but it has zero workers, because we've never started a server
for slave1.

We'll do that in a later section, but for now we'll just leave these
in the queue.

One way of handling back end outages is to continue to accept and queue transactions, but turn off the workers feeding them to
the back end. In this way we don't fail the transactions - we just buffer them up until they can be processed.

This barrage tester can help you check that all the transactions
complete correctly, as you experiment with various failure scenarios.

## Pre-production tests
Before putting any system into production, you should stress the system using your load testing scripts, and then run this barrage
test.
As the system is placed under increasing stress you may see
it stutter. Ideally you place the high load pipelines in node groups
behind their own queues, and you can control how much work they take
on by adjusting the number of workers.



:::warning Exercise
Create a test for `myPipeline`.
:::
